Docs: Add how to replace home dashboard (#26237)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/change-home-dashboard.md

+++
title = "Change the default home dashboard"
description = "How to replace the default home dashboard"
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "home"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Home Dashboard"
identifier = "change-home-dashboard"
parent = "admin"
weight = 100
+++

# Change the default home dashboard

> You can change the default homepage of Grafana in two different ways: change Grafana preferences or change the Grafana configuration.

Reviewer: We call it home dashboard or default dashboard everwhere else, I think we should use either over homepage to stay consistent.

## Change home dashboard preference

You can choose any of your existing Grafana dashboards to replace the default home dashboard in the preferences.

Only administrators can change organization preferences and they affect all the users in the organization. Changing your own user preferences only affects you.
User preferences override organization preferences. 

> 

Reviewer 2: I recommend making this two subtasks, each starting with an h3.

### Set home dashboard for your organization
This procedure changes the home dashboard for all users in your organization. Individual user preferences override it.

### Set your personal home dashboard
This procedure only changes your home dashboard. It overrides organization preferences.

1. Go to the dashboard you want to set as the home dashboard.
1. Star this dashboard by clicking on the star next to the dashboard title. 

> 1. *[Organization preferences]* In **Configuration > Preferences**, select your starred dashboard in the **Home Dashboard** field. 

Reviewer 2: For the first procedure, use the existing steps 1 and 2, then:
1. On the left menu, hover your cursor over the **Configuration** (gear) iconand then click **Preferences**.
1. In the **Home Dashboard** field, select the dashboard you want to use for your home dashboard. Options include all starred dashboards.

Reviewer 2: LOL. I used lazy numbering there, so it helpfully renumbered it for me. Oh, well.

> 1. *[User preferences]* Hover your avatar in the bottom left corner of Grafana and click on **Preferences**. Select your starred dashboard in the **Home Dashboard** field. 

Reviewer 2: For the first procedure, use the existing steps 1 and 2, then separate this step into two steps. I recommend adjusting the wording of the second sentence so it is consistent with the previous procedure step 4.

## Change home dashboard configuration

If preferences are set as described above, then they override this value.

> You can provide your own JSON file to change the home dashboard. No user will be able to update this dashboard in Grafana.

Reviewer 2: Is this using provisioning? If so, we should state that and link to the Provisioning topic.

Author: No it's not using provisioning

### [Optional] Convert an existing dashboard into a JSON file

> 1. Go to your dashboard page

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your dashboard page.
```

> 1. Click on the **Share dashboard** button next to the dashboard title

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Share dashboard** icon next to the dashboard title.
```

> 1. Go to the **Export** tab and click on **Save to file**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Export tab, click on **Save to file**.
```

> ### Use a JSON file as the home dashboard

Reviewer 2: It seems like this procedure could be merged with the previous one. Also, we might want to tell users to adjust the name of their file, since mine had a bunch of odd numbers following it.

Author: It seems like a lot of users generate dashboard JSON file so I wanted to be clear that you can use any JSON file and not only Grafana exported one.

> 1. Save your JSON file on disk, for example in the *data* folder of Grafana. 

Reviewer 2: "on disk" could be confusing here. Do you mean save your JSON file somewhere that Grafana can access it?

Author: Yes I agree. Do you have a better suggestion? I thought about something like `somewhere that Grafana can access it` but it seemed a bit too vague.

Reviewer 2: No, I think that's about right. Depending on the use case, a user might want it on their local machine, they also might want it on a shared corporate drive.

> 1. Save your JSON file on disk, for example in the *data* folder of Grafana. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Save your JSON file on disk, for example, in the Grafana `data` folder. 
```

+++
title = "Change the default home dashboard"
description = "How to replace the default home dashboard"
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "home"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Home Dashboard"
identifier = "change-home-dashboard"
parent = "admin"
weight = 100
+++

# Change the default home dashboard

You can change the default dashboard on the organization, team and user level. The home dashboard you set for the whole organization is the one all users will see by default. Teams can set their own home dashboard that overrides the organization setting. Individual users can also set their own home dashboard that overrides all the other settings.

> ## Set home dashboard for your organization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Set the home dashboard for your organization
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The team dashboard applies to all users assigned to the team in Grafana. The team dashboard overrides the organization dashboard settings. Personal dashboard settings override team dashboard settings. 

```

> ### Setting default dashboard through preferences

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set the default dashboard through preferences
```

1. Go to the dashboard you want to set as the home dashboard.
1. Star this dashboard by clicking on the star next to the dashboard title.
1. On the left menu, hover your cursor over the **Configuration** (gear) icon and then click **Preferences**.
1. In the **Home Dashboard** field, select the dashboard you want to use for your home dashboard. Options include all starred dashboards.

> ### Setting default dashboard through configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set the default dashboard through configuration
```

If preferences are set as described above, then they override this value.
You can provide your own JSON file to change the home dashboard. No user will be able to update this dashboard in Grafana.

#### [Optional] Convert an existing dashboard into a JSON file
1. Navigate to your dashboard page.
1. Click the **Share dashboard** icon next to the dashboard title.
1. In the **Export** tab, click on **Save to file**.

#### Use a JSON file as the home dashboard
1. Save your JSON file on disk, for example, in the Grafana `data` folder of Grafana. 
1. Update your configuration file to set the path to the JSON file. Read how to update this file in the [configuration]({{< relref "./configuration.md">}}) documentation.
```ini
[dashboards]
# Path to the default home dashboard. If this value is empty, then Grafana uses StaticRootPath + "dashboards/home.json"
default_home_dashboard_path = data/main-dashboard.json
```

## Set home dashboard for your team

> 1. Go to the dashboard you want to set as the home dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the dashboard you want to set as the home dashboard.
```

1. Star this dashboard by clicking on the star next to the dashboard title. 
1. On the left menu, hover your cursor over the **Configuration** (gear) icon and then click **Teams**.
1. Click on the team you want to change the home dashboard for and then navigate to the **Settings** tab.
1. In the **Home Dashboard** field, select the dashboard you want to use for your home dashboard. Options include all starred dashboards. 

## Set your personal home dashboard

> 1. Go to the dashboard you want to set as the home dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the dashboard you want to set as the home dashboard.
```
